---
tags:
  - UK/ucl
  - economics
  - politics
Module: ESPS0015
Date: 2025-02-28
---
⬇️Download Course Material
	https://moodle.ucl.ac.uk/my/

---
# 📙Pre-Readings

## ***Why Has not Democracy Slowed Rising Inequality?*
[Why Has not Democracy Slowed Rising Inequality?](Why%20Has%20not%20Democracy%20Slowed%20Rising%20Inequality?.md)

Although Economists argue that policy and public choice is not important when considering inequality, However inequality is heavily influenced by Politics.

So, Political factors should be explicitly considered when discussing the cause of economic inequalities.

In addition, the policies that could be changed to improve inequality, is **restricted** to :
- political institutions
- feedback from high-income campain contributors
- lack of voter participation
- a combination of polarisation
	
## ***A Rational Theory of the Size of Government* 
[A Rational Theory of the Size of Government](A%20Rational%20Theory%20of%20the%20Size%20of%20Government.md)

The principle reason for the increased size of the government, measured by the share of income distributed, is implied by the model that the extension of franchise change the position of decisive voters in the income distribution and changed the in relative productivity, Thus leading to increase in mean income relative to the income of decisive voter.

- Voters rationally anticipate the disincentive effects of taxation on the labor-leisure choice of their fellow citizens and take into account when voting.
- The Share earned income redistributed depend on the voting rule and on the distribution of productivity in the economy.
- Under the majority rule, the equilibrium tax share balances the budget and pays for the voters’ choice

# 📙Notes 
## Lecture
### Inequality
**Facts
- Facts: median UK average households income at 300-350£/week.

**Gini Coefficients
- Experiments taken to illustrate society with big Gini coefficient and rather unequal.
- Lorenz Curve
- Gini: A/(A+B)
### Redistribution method
#### Soak-the-Rich (Meltzer&Richard Model)
- Every household propose an idea tax rate t on pre-tax income Y
- Disposable income Y=(1-t)X+G/n 
*outcome:

|   Household    | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  |
|:--------------:| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|   Proposed t   | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 60  | 60  | 30  | 30  | 5   | 0   |
| Pre-tax Income | 1   | 1   | 1   | 1   | 2   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 10  | 25  |

*Where*

| Median X | Average X | MVT tax rate |
| -------- | --------- | ------------ |
| 2        | 5         | 60           |

## Seminar







